is it possible to bring your Instagram
account back from the dead if all you're
getting is crickets should you start a
new account today I'm going to share
with you the strategy that I used in the
last 90 days to bring my Instagram
account back to
life hey my name is shelene Johnson
thank you so much for joining me today
here on build your tribe A couple of
years ago I made a decision that I was
not going to focus or put any pressure
on myself to grow my Instagram account
now I realized that that is a a true
luxury
it's a privilege to not have to grow
your social media account for a lot of
entrepreneurs if you don't have social
media you don't have a business but I
was fortunate enough that we had grown
our email list our email list really
supports the business so I was in a
position where I felt like Instagram I
wanted to understand it and learn it but
I didn't need to put the pressure on
myself to grow my following instead what
I wanted to do was to deepen the
relationship I have with my existing
followers I want to take the pressure
off myself to post in my feed and
instead spend a lot more time in my
stories in doing so it dramatically
improved our sales getting to know the
existing followers I already have which
again was you know like more than enough
right 750,000 followers is fantastic and
so we developed some incredible
strategies that allowed us to build that
relationship grow our email list and in
doing so and growing our email list
using my Instagram stories we were able
to increase our sales now that's
something you want help with I want you
to click below you'll see in our show
description that I've put a little link
there where you can get 55 story ideas
for free all you have to do is click on
that link and or you can even go to my
Instagram right now and you can send me
the a DM that says 55 stories and I will
send you some great ideas on how you can
use your Instagram stories to grow your
email list and to serve service and
really get to know the people who are
following you so it's like it's a way to
get more engagement on your stories But
ultimately I mean you want more
engagement cuz you want more sales right
okay so anyways that's what I focused on
and it was nice to not have to worry
about growing my following at all and
what I was doing was posting whatever I
was excited about whatever I was into
kind of like all over the place it was
you know me and my brand but sometimes I
would post about doing in business
sometimes I was posting about our
vacation sometimes I was posting about
one of my kids' wedding like you know
just random stuff in other words it was
not niched content and sometimes that
was difficult because as someone who
teaches Instagram that's the Cornerstone
of growth is you need to have a niched
account so every time I was teaching an
Instagram training I would have to make
this kind of uh precursor statement and
say like hey you need to Niche but don't
go look at my content because my content
is not niched and it wasn't it was all
over the place and that's why my account
never grew in fact week after week I was
losing more and more followers you know
some people new people would follow but
there's usually more unfollows than
there were new follows but in January of
this year I decided that I was going to
really get serious about my Niche and
that meant that if I wanted to help a
certain person if I wanted to attract a
certain target audience I had to create
content that was super helpful to them
that meant I needed to do exactly what
it was I teach our students to do and
that is create niched content a very
obvious statement to anyone who goes and
checks out my profile of what exactly
they can expect from me what type of
content I post so the first thing I did
was changed my bio my bio now reads over
50 health and fitness expert remember
that the name field of your Instagram is
one of the only areas that is search
engine optimized so if somebody is to go
to Instagram and just type in over 50
health or over 50
Fitness I'm probably going to pop up
let's hope that I do next I decided to
focus on content that's specifically
delivered on the promise of my bio then
came the hard part and the hard part was
disciplining myself to create only
content for my feed that related to
health and fitness nutrition those kinds
of things related to per menopausal and
menopausal women now that was difficult
for me because I also like to talk about
ADHD and I also like to talk about
business and I also like to talk about
growing your email list and I also like
to talk about travel but I knew if I'm
really trying to help women who are in
this phase of their life they don't care
about all those things so I had to Niche
my content so that meant really thinking
to myself like okay what is something I
can create today that's going to be
valuable that's going to be share worthy
and I started becoming very intentional
about that content the next thing I did
was replaced each of my cover shots so
you know when you post up a reel you can
select the cover art like what what is
it that people see when they look at
your profile and if it's just a
screenshot from the video a new person
doesn't know what that content is about
you're asking someone to do when they go
to your profile page and they just see
like all these videos even if all those
videos are related to one Niche people
still don't know that unless they watch
each and every video so what I wanted to
do was replace each one of those cover
shots with a thumbnail that told them
exactly what that content was about so
that a woman who's just glancing at my
page would know like oh this is the type
of content she produces every one of the
thumbnails at a glance a woman who is
per menopausal or menopausal glances and
goes like all of this content is going
to serve me and therefore I'm much more
likely to get a follow and that's
exactly what happened so I'm going to
share with you some of my results first
of all my non-f follower engagement went
up
171% my follower engagement went up 28%
that's huge my Impressions over that
90-day period went up to 24 million an
increase of over 40% and in less than 3
months time I had 49,000 follows new
follows unfortunately at the same time I
had
26,000 unfollows so that's what happens
every single time you post every time
your profile pops up people make a
decision do I need to follow this person
yes or no the more you post the more new
followers you're going to get it you're
always getting unfollowers all of us are
always getting unfollows even when
you're not posting and here's why
because everybody on the planet wants to
follow fewer people so from time to time
we all do this you go through who you're
following and you're like if I haven't
seen any of their content if I don't if
I'm not interested in what it is they do
anymore you unfollow if you're like I
have no idea who this person is you
unfollow also some of those accounts
could have been Bots or old accounts and
so Instagram's constantly cleaning
things out too so you're always getting
unfollows which means if you want to
increase the number of follows you get
you've got to post more often because
the only way you're going to get a new
follow is if your content is showing up
in front of people so I increased my
posting rate to one and a half times per
day my goal was to do three yeah I
didn't hit three but we're up to at
least one and a half times per day and
that to my feed and that's that's great
and as you can see it's resulted in a
lot more new followers and more
importantly they're targeted followers
my engagement has really skyrocketed and
that's a good sign that's how I know
that the content that I'm producing is
what the woman who I'm trying to reach
is looking for I mean look at how many
comments are on some of these reals
engagement from non-followers increased
200% that's huge and an over 80%
increase in engagement from my existing
followers we've literally brought my
account back to life and did so by
niching down something that does take a
little bit more work it does take a lot
more thought it does take more
discipline it does take being very
intentional and thinking to yourself
like okay what is something that they
really are are going to need and want
and share or something that's really
going to entertain them it's the kind of
content that when they're looking at
your whole page overall and they're
looking at your bio does your picture
your bio and your content does it all
match the same promise but here's why
this is so important sales during that
90-day period profile visits went up 80%
but are you ready for this this is crazy
external link Taps and another words
people who clicked on the link in my bio
went up
167% which bottom line tells you this
it's worth the effort to Niche down now
if the struggle is figuring out how to
Niche down I highly recommend that you
check out the episode that we did on
Niche down it's one of the ways that I
think you can walk through the process
and figure out what it is you need to
choose as your Niche because as they say
the riches are in the niches if you
enjoyed this episode I want you to check
out this one
and this one if you're over 40 I think
you'll love everything you can learn
about branding especially how to make
over your Instagram account we're now
going to one episode per week that way
we can give you the absolute best
content we know that you're very busy we
know that you've got a lot to consume so
if you have any questions or suggestions
on what you would like to see next on
build your tribe be sure to leave those
for us Below in the comments Thanks for
liking this video thanks for subscribing
to the channel it's it's my goal to be
brief to be bright to make it fun and
then be done we're done thanks for being
here
[Music]
bye